-CSS stands for Cascading Style Sheets.
-CSS is used to define styles for your web pages, including the design, layout and variations in display for different devices and screen sizes. 

CSS Syntax:A CSS rule-set consists of a selector and a declaration block:
h1 {color:blue; font-size:20px;}

-A CSS declaration always ends with a semicolon, and declaration blocks are surrounded by curly braces. 

/*this is a css comment*/: styling to comment.

CSS Selectors: 	To identify or style the element.
	class 	.intro 	        Selects all elements with class="intro"
	#id 	#firstname 	Selects the element with id="firstname"
	* 	* 	        Selects all elements
	element 	p 	Selects all <p> elements
	element,element,.. 	div, p 	Selects all <div> elements and all <p> elements

There are three ways of inserting a style sheet:

    External CSS
    Internal CSS
    Inline CSS

External CSS: Each HTML page must include a reference to the external style sheet file inside the <link> element, inside the head section.

ex:<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="mystyle.css">

CSS Colour Values:For colouring the contents.
It is of three type:

1.CSS RGB Value

In CSS, a color can be specified as an RGB value, using this formula:

rgb(red, green, blue)

Each parameter (red, green, and blue) defines the intensity of the color between 0 and 255.

For example, rgb(255, 0, 0) is displayed as red, because red is set to its highest value (255) and the others are set to 0.

2.CSS HEX Value

In CSS, a color can be specified using a hexadecimal value in the form:

#rrggbb

Where rr (red), gg (green) and bb (blue) are hexadecimal values between 00 and ff (same as decimal 0-255).

For example, #ff0000 is displayed as red, because red is set to its highest value (ff) and the others are set to the lowest value (00).

3.In CSS, a color can be specified using hue, saturation, and lightness (HSL) in the form:

hsl(hue, saturation, lightness)

Hue is a degree on the color wheel from 0 to 360. 0 is red, 120 is green, and 240 is blue.

Saturation is a percentage value, 0% means a shade of gray, and 100% is the full color.

RGBA Value

RGBA color values are an extension of RGB color values with an alpha channel - which specifies the opacity for a color.

An RGBA color value is specified with:

rgba(red, green, blue, alpha)

The alpha parameter is a number between 0.0 (fully transparent) and 1.0 (not transparent at all)
Lightness is also a percentage, 0% is black, 50% is neither light or dark, 100% is white.


CSS Backgrounds:-
		CSS background-color:The background-color property specifies the background color of an element.
		ex: background-color:linen;

		CSS background-image: The background-image property specifies an image to use as the background of an element.
				      By default, the image is repeated so it covers the entire element.
					ex: background-image: url(some.jpg);

		CSS background-repeat: By default, the background-image property repeats an image both horizontally and vertically.	
					ex:    background-repeat: repeat-x;
					Showing the background image only once is also specified by the background-repeat property:
					background-repeat: no-repeat;

		CSS background-position: The background-position property is used to specify the position of the background image.
					ex: background-position: right top;

		CSS background-attachment: The background-attachment property specifies whether the background image should scroll or be fixed (will not scroll with the rest of the page):
					ex: for fixed - background-attachment: fixed;
					    for whole - background-attachment: scroll;
